[[!meta title="Lab reservation policy"]]

_As established by the Board of Directors on November 6, 2017._

Any group eligible for OCF membership is able to reserve the OCF lab space for
a maximum of 2 hours at a time during the OCFâ€™s regular operating hours
(exceptions can be made at the discretion of the OCF Board of Directors). Those
who reserve the OCF lab space are able to use the 29 computers within the lab
(as well as additional seating if available), in addition to the main TV
attached to the back wall. A whiteboard is available upon request, and student
group members who are also OCF members may print normally pursuant to their
existing printing quotas. Should the lab be reserved, the option to fully close
the lab to the general population may be available.

Here are a few important things to note:

- All OCF computers run on Linux NixOS, so operating system specific
  applications such as Microsoft Word will not be available. However,
  browser-based tools, such as Google Docs, will work. If software you need is
  available for Debian, it may be installed at the discretion of an OCF Site
  Manager.

- The OCF hosts a DeCal; in Fall 2018 the DeCal is from 8 to 9 pm on Tuesdays
  and Thursdays, and as such we will be unable to allow lab reservations that
  conflict with or extend into that timeframe.

- We do not control access to the MLK Student Union; please make sure you are
  able to independently enter the building during your reservation time as we
  will not be able to let you enter the building. MLK is not open 24/7 and
  closes for certain holidays.

## Student group expectations

To reserve the OCF lab, all student groups must have a signatory of their
organization apply for the lab space using our lab reservation [request
form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1H4AnBfZVavyTgKDhZg1QHTqQloKsEJNd_s6_wvHj-G0)
at least two weeks in advance of the desired reservation date. The request must
then be approved by the OCF Board of Directors. Should the request be approved,
the student organization will be allowed to to use the lab at the allotted time
pursuant to the following conditions:

1. The lab space must be cleaned after use by the student organization. Eating
and drinking in the lab is permitted, as long as the space remains clean and
available for use immediately after the event concludes.

2. Printing in the OCF lab is subject to the standard per person rules located
[here](https://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/docs/services/lab/printing/). Please note
that the OCF currently does not offer printing for group accounts.

3. All persons entering the OCF during the time of the event must have
identification showing affiliation with the university (e.g. Cal ID or Clipper
Card) and must show it to OCF staff at the door. In addition, all members that
would like to use OCF computers will need to have their own OCF account.

4. All OCF policies will continue to apply, take precedence, and will be
enforced at the sole discretion of the OCF Board of Directors.

5. Reserving student groups will be held liable for any damage to OCF property
that occurs during their reservation.

## Approving lab usage requests

The Board of Directors holds the authority to approve requests to reserve the
OCF lab. When the OCF is not formally in session (i.e. during breaks), the
Cabinet can make provisional decisions on requests. If the decisions are
ratified at the first Board meeting of the next formal session, they will
become valid; otherwise they will expire.

## Cancellation and rescheduling

The OCF is not responsible for events outside of our control that can interfere
with scheduled events. These can include, but are not limited to: fire alarms,
building closures, etc. In situations where events are interrupted, the OCF may
be willing to attempt to reschedule the event, but cannot guarantee that an
event will be rescheduled. In addition, failure to abide by safety procedures
(e.g not evacuating during a fire alarm) may result in student groups being
banned from reserving the OCF, banning accounts affiliated with the event as
well as possible further action as decided by the Board of Directors.

## Liability

The OCF is not liable for the actions taken by those who attend events within
the lab, and will hold the hosting group liable for any policy violations. In
addition, the OCF is not liable for any damages during said event.

## Amendment of this policy

The Cabinet may update purely factual information in this policy (e.g. the
dates and times of the decal); all other amendments may only be made by the
Board of Directors.
